	VSCRIPT: A scripting language extension for VISTA

INTRODUCTION TO SCRIPTING:

Graphical User Interface's (GUI's) are excellent as an introduction to
doing a task. This helps to get one initiated but when one starts
doing complicated, conditional-based, repititive tasks, GUI's either
cannot do them or it is extremely time-consuming and tedious to do
so.

	Scripting is the process of writing small scripts ( 1-2 pages
long ) which do a simple task. Scripting is not limited to command
line but can also manipulate or create graphical components such as
plots. Scripting automates tasks and makes them repeatable. This makes
the work done by an individual easily transferrable to future persons
who encounter similar tasks. This helps create a body of reusable code
with more ease than traditional programming.

	Furthermore scripting is interactive, ie. users can try
out various commands like the ones above by typing them line by line
on the command interpreter or pasting the entire set of lines at the
interpreter. The interpreter then executes those lines and waits for
further commands. This is again of great use as one can experiment
with various scenarios and then write those that worked into a script
file for reuse.

	Scripting could be used for :-

- a tool for model/data comparisions
- a tool for model/model incremental analysis
- a tool for dynamic documentation
- a tool for checking model run sanity
- a tool for automated data quality checking/flag setting with rules 

INTRODUCTION TO VSCRIPT:

	VISTA (VISualization Tool and Analyzer) is a GUI that was
developed by DWR. VISTA was described in the June 1998 Annual
Report. The purpose of VISTA is to provide time-series data retrieval,
management, manipulation and visualization.

	VSCRIPT is a scripting language extension for VISTA. It allows
a user to write simple scripts using VISTA's functionality. VSCRIPT is
now an integral part of VISTA's distribution.

	The underlying language of VSCRIPT is Python. This a mature
and stable scripting language which is very close in syntax to the
underlying language of VISTA ( i.e. Java). VSCRIPT is an extension
based on JPython ( Java version of Python which is available from 
www.jpython.org ). VISTA and VSCRIPT and its documentation are
available from 
http://wwwdelmod.water.ca.gov/docs/dsm2/vista

	Python is well documented and has a large user
community. JPython taps into the power and libraries of two languages
Java and Python to give the user desired flexibility and power.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS

	1. Documentation:
		There are a number of modules available in VISTA to
manipulate and display data. In order to use this functionality the
user needs to be informed. For this purpose there will be VSCRIPT
classes in the future. Furthermore documentation of sample scripts and
VISTA functionality will be improved.

	2. Library of scripts for common tasks
		Certain data processing tasks are repeated by users in
the course of doing various studies. The aim of scripting is to make
them repeatable. Furthermore if the task is generally useful enough it
becomes useful enough to parametrize the script in terms of arguments
required to do the task so that the script can be customized by future
users faced with similar tasks. A scripting library for commonly used
scripts will be documented and expanded upon in the future.
